Acevedo, O. C. and D. R. Fitzjarrarld, 2001: The early evening surface layer transition: Temporal and spatial variability. J. Atmos. Sci., 58, 2650-2667, https://doi.org/10.1175/1520-0469(2001)058<2650:TEESLT>2.0.CO;2.
Acevedo, O.C., Costa, F.D., Maroneze, R., Carvalho, A.D., Puhales, F.S. and Oliveira, P.E., 2021: External controls on the transition between stable boundary‐layer turbulence regimes. Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, 147(737), 2335-2351, https://doi.org/10.1002/qj.4027.
Audouin, O., Roehrig, R., Couvreux, F. and Williamson, D., 2021: Modeling the GABLS4 Strongly‐Stable Boundary Layer With a GCM Turbulence Parameterization: Parametric Sensitivity or Intrinsic Limits? Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems, 13(3), e2020MS002269, https://doi.org/10.1029/2020MS002269.
Basu, S., Raman, S., Mohanty, U.C. and Rajagopal, E.N., 1999: Influence of the planetary boundary layer physics on medium-range prediction of monsoon over India. pure and applied geophysics, 155, pp.33-55, https://doi.org/10.1007/s000240050253.
Beljaars, A.C.M. and Holtslag, A.A.M., 1991: Flux parameterization over land surfaces for atmospheric models. Journal of Applied Meteorology, 30(3), 327-341, https://doi.org/10.1175/1520-0450(1991)030<0327:FPOLSF>2.0.CO;2.
Beljaars, A.C.M. , 2020: Personal Communication.
Beljaars, A. C. M., and Coauthors, 2012: The stable boundary layer in the ECMWF model. Proc. ECMWF Workshop on Diurnal Cycles and the Stable Boundary Layer, Reading, England, ECMWF/WCRP, 1-10, https://www.ecmwf.int/sites/default/files/elibrary/2012/8029-stable-boundary-layer-ecmwf-model.pdf
Bindoff, N.L., Stott, P.A., AchutaRao, K.M., Allen, M.R., Gillett, N., Gutzler, D., Hansingo, K., Hegerl, G., Hu, Y., Jain, S. and Sebbari, R., 2014: Detection and attribution of climate change: from global to regional. Climate change 2013: the physical science basis,
Bintanja, R., Van der Linden, E.C. and Hazeleger, W., 2012: Boundary layer stability and Arctic climate change: A feedback study using EC-Earth. Climate dynamics, 39(11), 2659-2673, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00382-011-1272-1.
Blackadar, A.K., 1979: High resolution models of the planetary boundary layer. Advances in Environmental Science and Engineering, 1(1), 50-85.
Boe, J., Hall, A. and Qu, X., 2009: Current GCMs’ unrealistic negative feedback in the Arctic. Journal of Climate, 22(17), 4682-4695, https://doi.org/10.1175/2009JCLI2885.1.
Bosveld, F.C., Baas, P., Steeneveld, G.J., Holtslag, A.A., Angevine, W.M., Bazile, E., de Bruijn, E.I., Deacu, D., Edwards, J.M., Ek, M. and Larson, V.E., 2014: The third GABLS intercomparison case for evaluation studies of boundary-layer models. Part B: results and process understanding. Boundary-layer meteorology, 152(2), 157-187, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10546-014-9919-1.
Businger JA, 1973: Turbulent transfer in the atmospheric surface layer. In Workshop on Micrometeorology, 67-100, Am. Met. Soc.
Byrkjedal, Ø., Esau, I. and Kvamstø, N.G., 2008: Sensitivity of simulated wintertime Arctic atmosphere to vertical resolution in the ARPEGE/IFS model. Climate dynamics, 30(7-8), 687-701, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00382-007-0316-z.
Cai, M., and J. H. Lu, 2007: Dynamical greenhouse-plus feedback and polar warming amplification. Part II: Meridional and vertical asymmetries of the global warming. Climate Dyn., 29, 375–391, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00382-007-0238-9.
Cassano, J. J., Parish, T. R. and King, J. C., 2001: Evaluation of Turbulent Surface Flux Parameterizations for the Stable Surface Layer over Halley, Antarctica. Mon. Wea. Rev., 129, 26-46, https://doi.org/10.1175/1520-0493(2001)129<0026:EOTSFP>2.0.CO;2.
Cuxart, J., Holtslag, A. A. M., Beare, R. J., Bazile, E., Beljaars, A., Cheng, A., Conangla, L., Freedman, M. Ek, F. , Hamdi, R., Kerstein, A., Kitagawa, H., Lenderink, G., Lewellen, D., Mailhot, J., Mauritsen, T., Perov, V., Schayes, G., Steeneveld, G. J. Svensson, G., Taylor, P., Weng, W., Wunsch, S. and Xu, K.-M., 2006: Single Column Model Intercomparison for the Stably Stratified Atmospheric Boundary Layer, Boundary-Layer Meteorol., 118(2), 273-303, https://doi.org/0.1007/s10546-005-3780-1.
Davy, R. and Esau, I., 2014: Global climate models’ bias in surface temperature trends and variability. Environmental Research Letters, 9(11), 114024, https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/9/11/114024.
Davy, R. and Outten, S., 2020: The Arctic surface climate in CMIP6: status and developments since CMIP5. Journal of Climate, 33(18), 8047-8068, https://doi.org/10.1175/JCLI-D-19-0990.1.
Derbyshire, S.H., 1999: Boundary-layer decoupling over cold surfaces as a physical boundary-instability. Boundary-Layer Meteorology, 90(2), 297-325.
Duynkerke, P.G., 1991: Radiation fog: A comparison of model simulation with detailed observations. Monthly Weather Review, 119(2), 324-341, https://doi.org/10.1175/1520-0493(1991)119<0324:RFACOM>2.0.CO;2.
England, D.E. and McNider, R.T., 1995: Stability functions based upon shear functions. Boundary-Layer Meteorology, 74(1-2), 113-130.
Esau, I.N. and Byrkjedal, Ø., 2007: Application of a large-eddy simulation database to optimisation of first-order closures for neutral and stably stratified boundary layers. Boundary-layer meteorology, 125(2), 207-225.
Fernando, H.J.S. and Weil, J.C., 2010: Whither the stable boundary layer? A shift in the research agenda. Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, 91(11), 1475-1484.
Franzke, C.L., Lee, S. and Feldstein, S.B., 2017: Evaluating Arctic warming mechanisms in CMIP5 models. Climate Dynamics, 48, 3247-3260.
Graversen, R.G. and Wang, M., 2009: Polar amplification in a coupled climate model with locked albedo. Climate Dynamics, 33, 629-643.
Hall, A., 2004: The role of surface albedo feedback in climate. Journal of Climate, 17(7), 1550-1568.
Holland, M.M. and Bitz, C.M., 2003: Polar amplification of climate change in coupled models. Climate Dynamics, 21(3-4), 221-232.
Holtslag, A.A.M. and Boville, B.A., 1993: Local versus nonlocal boundary-layer diffusion in a global climate model. Journal of Climate, 6(10), 1825-1842.
Holtslag, A.A.M., Svensson, G., Baas, P., Basu, S., Beare, B., Beljaars, A.C.M., Bosveld, F.C., Cuxart, J., Lindvall, J., Steeneveld, G.J. and Tjernström, M., 2013: Stable atmospheric boundary layers and diurnal cycles: challenges for weather and climate models. Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, 94(11), 1691-1706.
Holtslag, B., 2006: Preface: GEWEX atmospheric boundary-layer study (GABLS) on stable boundary layers. Boundary-Layer Meteorology, 118(2), 243-246.
Janjic ZI. 2001: Nonsingular implementation of the Mellor-Yamada Level 2.5 scheme in the NCEP Meso Model, NOAA/NWS/NCEP Office Note 437.
Kantha, L.H. and Clayson, C.A., 1994: An improved mixed layer model for geophysical applications. Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans, 99(C12), 25235-25266.
Kosović, B. and Curry, J.A., 2000: A large eddy simulation study of a quasi-steady, stably stratified atmospheric boundary layer. Journal of the atmospheric sciences, 57(8), 1052-1068
Lorenz, E.N., 1963: Deterministic nonperiodic flow. Journal of atmospheric sciences, 20(2), 130-141.
Louis, J.F., 1979: A parametric model of vertical eddy fluxes in the atmosphere. Boundary-Layer Meteorology, 17(2), 187-202.
Mahrt, L., 1989: Limit cycle mixing. Journal of Atmospheric Sciences, 46(8), 1061-1075.
Mahrt, L., 1996: The bulk aerodynamic formulation over heterogeneous surfaces. Boundary-Layer Meteorology, 78(1), 87-119.
Mahrt, L., 1999: Stratified atmospheric boundary layers, Bound-layer Meteor., 90, 375-396.
Manabe, S. and Stouffer, R.J., 1994: Multiple-century response of a coupled ocean-atmosphere model to an increase of atmospheric carbon dioxide. Journal of climate, 7(1), 5-23.
Manabe, S. and Wetherald, R.T., 1975: The effects of doubling the CO2 concentration on the climate of a general circulation model. Journal of Atmospheric Sciences, 32(1), 3-15.
McNider, R.T. and Pielke, R.A., 1981: Diurnal boundary-layer development over sloping terrain. Journal of Atmospheric Sciences, 38(10), 2198-2212.
McNider, R.T., England, D.E., Friedman, M.J. and Shi, X., 1995: Predictability of the stable atmospheric boundary layer. Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences, 52(10), 1602-1614.
McNider, R.T., Pour-Biazar, A., Doty, K., White, A., Wu, Y., Qin, M., Hu, Y., Odman, T., Cleary, P., Knipping, E. and Dornblaser, B., 2018: Examination of the physical atmosphere in the Great Lakes region and its potential impact on air quality—Overwater stability and satellite assimilation. Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology, 57(12), 2789-2816.
McNider, R.T., Steeneveld, G.J., Holtslag, A.A.M., Pielke, R.A., Mackaro, S., Pour‐Biazar, A., Walters, J., Nair, U. and Christy, J., 2012: Response and sensitivity of the nocturnal boundary layer over land to added longwave radiative forcing. Journal of Geophysical Research: Atmospheres, 117(D14).
Mellor, G.L. and Yamada, T., 1982: Development of a turbulence closure model for geophysical fluid problems. Reviews of Geophysics, 20(4), 851-875.
Pithan, F. and Mauritsen, T., 2014: Arctic amplification dominated by temperature feedbacks in contemporary climate models. Nature Geoscience, 7(3), 181.
Pithan, F., Ackerman, A., Angevine, W.M., Hartung, K., Ickes, L., Kelley, M., Medeiros, B., Sandu, I., Steeneveld, G.J., Sterk, H.A. and Svensson, G., 2016: Select strengths and biases of models in representing the Arctic winter boundary layer over sea ice: the Larcform 1 single column model intercomparison. Journal of advances in modeling earth systems, 8(3), 1345-1357.
Pleim, J.E., 2007: A combined local and nonlocal closure model for the atmospheric boundary layer. Part I: Model description and testing. Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology, 46(9), 1383-1395.
ReVelle D. O., 1993: Chaos and “bursting” in the planetary boundary layer, J. Appl. Meteor., 32, 1169-1180.
Rugenstein, M.A., Winton, M., Stouffer, R.J., Griffies, S.M. and Hallberg, R., 2013: Northern high-latitude heat budget decomposition and transient warming. Journal of Climate, 26(2), 609-621.
Savijärvi, H., 2009: Stable boundary layer: Parametrizations for local and larger scales. Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, 135(641), 914-921.
Screen, J.A., Deser, C. and Simmonds, I., 2012: Local and remote controls on observed Arctic warming. Geophysical Research Letters, 39(10).
Shindell, D., 2007: Local and remote contributions to Arctic warming. Geophysical research letters, 34(14).
Shir, C.C. and Bornstein, R.D., 1977: Eddy exchange coefficients in numerical models of the planetary boundary layer. Boundary-Layer Meteorology, 11(2), 171-185.
Steeneveld, G.J., Holtslag, A.A.M., Nappo, C.J., Van de Wiel, B.J.H. and Mahrt, L., 2008b: Exploring the possible role of small-scale terrain drag on stable boundary layers over land. Journal of applied meteorology and climatology, 47(10), 2518-2530.
Steeneveld, G.J., Mauritsen, T., De Bruijn, E.I.F., Vilà-Guerau de Arellano, J., Svensson, G. and Holtslag, A.A.M., 2008a: Evaluation of limited-area models for the representation of the diurnal cycle and contrasting nights in CASES-99. Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology, 47(3), 869-887.
Steeneveld, G.J., Van de Wiel, B.J.H. and Holtslag, A.A.M., 2006: Modeling the evolution of the atmospheric boundary layer coupled to the land surface for three contrasting nights in CASES-99. Journal of the atmospheric sciences, 63(3), 920-935.
Stull, R.B., 1988: Mean boundary layer characteristics. In An introduction to boundary layer meteorology (pp. 1-27). Dordrecht: Springer Netherlands.
Sukoriansky, S., Galperin, B. and Staroselsky, I., 2005: A quasinormal scale elimination model of turbulent flows with stable stratification. Physics of fluids, 17(8), 085107.
Swanson, K.L., 2013: Emerging selection bias in large‐scale climate change simulations. Geophysical Research Letters, 40(12), 3184-3188.
Tastula, E.M., Galperin, B., Dudhia, J., LeMone, M.A., Sukoriansky, S. and Vihma, T., 2015: Methodical assessment of the differences between the QNSE and MYJ PBL schemes for stable conditions. Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, 141(691), 2077-2089.
Taylor, P.C., Cai, M., Hu, A., Meehl, J., Washington, W. and Zhang, G.J., 2013: A decomposition of feedback contributions to polar warming amplification. Journal of Climate, 26(18), 7023-7043.
Tjernstrom, M., Zagar, M., Svensson, G., Cassano, J. J., Pfeifer, S., Rinke, A., Wyser, K., Dethloff, K., Jones, C., Semmler, T., Shaw, M.: 2005: Modelling the Arctic Boundary Layer: An Evaluation of Six ARCMIP Regional-Scale Models with Data from the SHEBA Project, Boundary-Layer Meteorol., 117, 337-381.
Van de Wiel, B. J. H., A. F. Moene, R.J. Ronda H. A. R. De Bruin, and A. A. M. Holtslag, 2002b: Intermittent turbulence and oscillations in the stable boundary layer over land. Part II. A system dynamics approach., J. Atmos. Sci., 59, 2567-2581.
van de Wiel, B. J. H., Moene, A. F., Jonker, H. J. J., Baas, P., Basu, S., Donda, J. M. M., . . . Holtslag, A. A. M., 2012: The minimum wind speed for sustainable turbulence in the nocturnal boundary layer. Journal of Atmospheric Science, 69, 3097–3115, https://doi.org/10.1175/JASD-12-064.1.
van de Wiel, B. J. H., Vignon, E., Baas, P., van Hooijdonk, I. G. S., van der Linden, S. J. A., van Hooft, J. A., . . . Genthon, C., 2017: Regime transitionin near-surface temperature inversions: A conceptual model. Journal of Atmospheric Sciences, 74, 1057–1073, https://doi.org/10.1175/JAS-D-16-0180.1.
Van de Wiel, B.J.H., Ronda, R.J., Moene, A.F., De Bruin, H.A.R. and Holtslag, A.A.M., 2002: Intermittent turbulence and oscillations in the stable boundary layer over land. Part I: A bulk model. Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences, 59(5), 942-958.
Vignon, E., Hourdin, F., Genthon, C., Gallée, H., Bazile, E., Lefebvre, M.P., Madeleine, J.B. and Van de Wiel, B.J., 2017a: Antarctic boundary layer parametrization in a general circulation model: 1‐D simulations facing summer observations at Dome C. Journal of Geophysical Research: Atmospheres, 122(13), 6818-6843.
Vignon, E., van de Wiel, B.J., van Hooijdonk, I.G., Genthon, C., van der Linden, S.J., van Hooft, J.A., Baas, P., Maurel, W., Traullé, O. and Casasanta, G., 2017b: Stable boundary‐layer regimes at Dome C, Antarctica: observation and analysis. Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, 143(704), 1241-1253.
Viterbo, P. and Beljaars, A.C., 1995: An improved land surface parameterization scheme in the ECMWF model and its validation. Journal of climate, 8(11), 2716-2748.
Viterbo, P., Beljaars, A., Mahfouf, J.F. and Teixeira, J., 1999: The representation of soil moisture freezing and its impact on the stable boundary layer. Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, 125(559), 2401-2426.
Walters, J. T., R. T. McNider, X. Shi, and W. B. Norris, 2007: Positive surface temperature feedback in the stable nocturnal boundary layer. Geophys. Res. Let., 34(12),  https://doi.org/10.1029/2007GL029505.
Zilitinkevich, S.S. and Esau, I.N., 2003: The effect of baroclinicity on the equilibrium depth of neutral and stable planetary boundary layers. Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, 129(595), 3339-3356,  https://doi.org/10.1256/qj.02.94.